Added documentation file about anonymity (#1154)
publiclab/mapknitter: anonymity.md

> # Anonymity on [Mapknitter](https://mapknitter.org)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Anonymity on [MapKnitter](https://mapknitter.org)
```

> [Publiclab](https://publiclab.org) is an organization dedicated to protecting the planet by building useful [tools](https://github.com/publiclab) and bringing together passionate and kind people who want to have a positive impact. Mapknitter was at the beginning of this collaboration between committed individuals when it was used to [provide public information about the 2010 BP Oil Disaster](https://publiclab.org/wiki/stories). It has since grown and now hosts more than **2761** maps yet it still upholds its fundamental idea of sharing **open** data that anyone can **contribute to or edit**.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Public Lab](https://publiclab.org) is an organization dedicated to protecting the planet by building useful [tools](https://github.com/publiclab) and bringing together passionate and kind people who want to have a positive impact. MapKnitter was at the beginning of this collaboration between committed individuals when it was used to [provide public information about the 2010 BP Oil Disaster](https://publiclab.org/wiki/stories). It has since grown and now hosts more than **2761** maps, yet it still upholds its fundamental idea of sharing **open** data that anyone can **contribute to or edit**.  
```

> [Publiclab](https://publiclab.org) is an organization dedicated to protecting the planet by building useful [tools](https://github.com/publiclab) and bringing together passionate and kind people who want to have a positive impact. Mapknitter was at the beginning of this collaboration between committed individuals when it was used to [provide public information about the 2010 BP Oil Disaster](https://publiclab.org/wiki/stories). It has since grown and now hosts **2761** maps yet it still upholds its fundamental idea of sharing **open** data that anyone can **contribute to or edit**. This mission is why the ability to contribute anonymously is important for this project. 

Reviewer 2: Hi @Uzay-G thanks so much for opening this...Be patient with this one because its critical and may involve a few people so there might be some back and forth..here are my some suggestions.
I think we should say `more than 2761 maps` because the number should keep increasing.
Also  I would suggest this part `This mission is why the ability to contribute anonymously is important for this project` 
to not follow the previous line because it looks like its a continuation of the previous line that has this phrase `data that anyone can contribute to or edit` because the anymous authors cannot edit, delete  or comment on other maps...Does this make sense?

Author: Yeah ok no problem :smile:. Do you think it's a good start? I will implement your changes now. Thanks for reviewing it

Users **should not** be bogged down with privacy issues and the extra barrier of creating an account as they advance this initiative but fighting the [problems of anonymous contributions](https://github.com/publiclab/mapknitter/issues/1029) is also important.

## Privacy and Impact

>  Supporting **user privacy** is crucial to Mapknitter and its contributors because of this information explained by @jywarren:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 Supporting **user privacy** is crucial to MapKnitter and its contributors because of this information explained by [@jywarren](https://github.com/jywarren):
```

> > We have had input from community partners that people who may be  vulnerable or are concerned about being connected to data produced on  MapKnitter.org may be more comfortable producing maps anonymously,  despite the drawbacks. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> We have had input from community partners that people who may be  vulnerable or are concerned about being connected to data produced on mapknitter.org may be more comfortable producing maps anonymously,  despite the drawbacks. 
```

Indeed, users of our open source software have explained that keeping their data private is a major concern for them and might even help ensure their security. 

> They would not want to be identified and need anonymity to preserve this. Implementing and perfecting this feature lets us aid these users as they exert their freedom of expression in a way that is safe for them. Although it can be difficult to comprehend the importance of anonymity for these people, the mere fact that this is a concern justifies our attempts to accommodate and assist them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
They would not want to be identified and need anonymity to preserve this. Implementing and perfecting this feature lets us aid these users as they exert their freedom of expression in a way that is safe for them.
```

Reviewer: I'm thinking that we should avoid overtly saying this is a "justification" because it implies something about it needs to be justified. And the first few sentences have already said enough!

> You can learn read a short overview of this issue relative to Mapknitter [here](https://github.com/publiclab/mapknitter/issues/1021#issuecomment-565624601) or you can read this more general but extremely relevant article about [anonymity and freedom of expression](https://www.eff.org/files/filenode/unspecialrapporteurfoe2011-final_3.pdf).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can read a short overview of this issue relative to MapKnitter [here](https://github.com/publiclab/mapknitter/issues/1021#issuecomment-565624601) or you can read this more general but extremely relevant article about [anonymity and freedom of expression](https://www.eff.org/files/filenode/unspecialrapporteurfoe2011-final_3.pdf).
```

> You can learn read a short overview of this issue relative to Mapknitter [here](https://github.com/publiclab/mapknitter/issues/1021#issuecomment-565624601) or you can read this more general but extremely relevant article about [anonymity and freedom of expression](https://www.eff.org/files/filenode/unspecialrapporteurfoe2011-final_3.pdf).

Reviewer 2: I believe this was a guide for you to take some notes from and implement in this documentation..but you can also include it as a further reference.

Author: Wait so should I keep the reference or not? I think it includes some additional context which might be interesting.

---

## User Interface Problems and Deterrence

> [Login walls](https://www.nngroup.com/articles/login-walls/) can very easily deter users from accessing Mapknitter tools and creating maps. We want to ensure that any user can have an easy and direct access to the platform. An important part of our decision to allow anonymity is to make sure users are not put off by a pushy user interface that forces them to create an account for our **nonprofit** website.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Login walls](https://www.nngroup.com/articles/login-walls/) can very easily deter users from accessing MapKnitter tools and creating maps. We want to ensure that any user can have an easy and direct access to the platform.
```

Reviewer: I'm thinking here that the last sentence is redundant!

As you can see below, we've opted for a compromise that warns users that they will have access to more functionality if they log in **but** if they prefer to stay anonymous this is also possible.

![mapknitter](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Uzay-G/mapknitter/main/mapknitter-anon.png)

---

## Technical Aspects

> Currently. we allow anonymous users but they are limited in certain aspects as they cannot:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, we allow anonymous users but they are limited in certain aspects as they cannot:
```

- Post comments on the maps and be part of the discussion.
- Export featured maps.
- Delete images - because for anonymous users we can't tell whose images they are or who should be allowed to delete  them

> This allows us to preserve anonymity while preventing vandalism or degradation of content quality although it does not fully counter [spammy behavior](https://github.com/publiclab/mapknitter/issues/246). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This allows us to preserve anonymity while preventing vandalism or degradation of content quality, although it does not fully counter [spammy behavior](https://github.com/publiclab/mapknitter/issues/246). 
```

# Anonymity on [MapKnitter](https://mapknitter.org)

[Public Lab](https://publiclab.org) is an organization dedicated to protecting the planet by building useful [tools](https://github.com/publiclab) and bringing together passionate and kind people who want to have a positive impact. MapKnitter was at the beginning of this collaboration between committed individuals when it was used to [provide public information about the 2010 BP Oil Disaster](https://publiclab.org/wiki/stories). It has since grown and now hosts more than **2761** maps, yet it still upholds its fundamental idea of sharing **open** data that anyone can **contribute to or edit**.  

Users **should not** be bogged down with privacy issues and the extra barrier of creating an account as they advance this initiative but fighting the [problems of anonymous contributions](https://github.com/publiclab/mapknitter/issues/1029) is also important.

## Privacy and Impact

>  Supporting **user privacy** is crucial to MapKnitter and its contributors because of this information explained by [@jywarren](https://github.com/jywarren):

Reviewer 3: >  its contributors because of this information explained by [@jywarren](https://github.com/jywarren):

... as explained by ...

> > We have had input from community partners that people who may be vulnerable or are concerned about being connected to data produced on mapknitter.org may be more comfortable producing maps anonymously, despite the drawbacks. 

Reviewer 3: Remove We. Write Public Lab.

> > We have had input from community partners that people who may be  vulnerable or are concerned about being connected to data produced on mapknitter.org may be more comfortable producing maps anonymously,  despite the drawbacks. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> We have had input from community partners that people who may be vulnerable or are concerned about being connected to data produced on mapknitter.org may be more comfortable producing maps anonymously, despite the drawbacks. 
```

> Indeed, users of our open source software have explained that keeping their data private is a major concern for them and might even help ensure their security.

> They would not want to be identified and need anonymity to preserve this. Implementing and perfecting this feature lets us aid these users as they exert their freedom of expression in a way that is safe for them.

Reviewer 3: I can't understand what is `they` here.

> They would not want to be identified and need anonymity to preserve this. Implementing and perfecting this feature lets us aid these users as they exert their freedom of expression in a way that is safe for them. Users might not want personal data to be publicly available if they create an account. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
They would not want to be identified and need anonymity to preserve this. Implementing and perfecting this feature lets us aid these users as they exert their freedom of expression in a way that is safe for them.
```

> You can read this more general but extremely relevant article on the important issue of [anonymity and freedom of expression](https://www.eff.org/files/filenode/unspecialrapporteurfoe2011-final_3.pdf) to better understand the roots of this issue.

Reviewer 3: You -> Folks

---

## User Interface Problems and Deterrence

[Login walls](https://www.nngroup.com/articles/login-walls/) can very easily deter users from accessing MapKnitter tools and creating maps. We want to ensure that any user can have an easy and direct access to the platform.

As you can see below, we've opted for a compromise that warns users that they will have access to more functionality if they log in **but** if they prefer to stay anonymous this is also possible.

We would love to let anonymous users uses these features but unfortunately it would be impossible to supervise these users if we allowed them to change and sometimes diminish the content of registered users.

![mapknitter](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Uzay-G/mapknitter/main/mapknitter-anon.png)

---

## Technical Aspects

> Currently, we allow anonymous users but they are limited in certain aspects as they cannot:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Anonymous users are limited in certain aspects as they cannot:
```

- Post comments on the maps and be part of the discussion.
- Export featured maps.

> - Delete images - because for anonymous users we can't tell whose images they are or who should be allowed to delete  them

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Delete images - we can't tell whose images they are or who should be allowed to delete them if they were created anonymously.
```

This allows us to preserve anonymity while preventing vandalism or degradation of content quality, although it does not fully counter [spammy behavior](https://github.com/publiclab/mapknitter/issues/246). 

Some potential but complex features that could help enhance this are:

- [Edit history for maps and images](https://github.com/publiclab/mapknitter/issues/463#issuecomment-478184881) - Registered users could then **revert** changes made by anonymous ones if they are not useful. Building this type of log would be a valuable feature as it would allow some form of **quality control** on user submissions.

- [Edit permissions](https://github.com/publiclab/mapknitter/issues/84#issuecomment-510123139) - Restrictions on who can edit or delete maps are already in use but developing this feature could be useful.

- [Review before maps are posted](https://github.com/publiclab/mapknitter/issues/1029) - This would make submissions from anonymous or first time posters require moderation before being approved and public.

---

> Thank you for reading this and helping us make these tools better as a community. Check out [these issues](https://github.com/publiclab/mapknitter/issues?page=1&q=is%3Aissue+anonymous&utf8=%E2%9C%93) if you want to participate in the amelioration of this feature and please edit this document and make a pull request if you've noticed anything relevant that should be added.

Reviewer 3: Thank you -> Thanks
